Welcome back to your next lesson recruit.
Now it's time to discuss python lists lists or ordered sequences that can hold a variety of object types.
They use the same square bracket notation that we've seen earlier and commas to separate out objects
in a list.
Here we can see an example of a list of integers lists support indexing and slicing and lists can be
nested and also have a variety of useful methods that can be called off of them.
Let's explore all these concepts by opening a Jupiter notebook.
Let's start off by making an example list will say my list and create an example list of integers something
you want to avoid doing as you've mentioned the past and choosing variable names is if you choose the
variable name list.
You notice that it's actually highlighted.
That means it's a pre-built and key word and you don't want to use that.
If you accidentally already that some sort of assignment like list is one to three.
You should do is go to kernel and then hit restart.
Then make sure you delete or comment out that line.
Continuing on.
Notice that we have my list.
Now here you have a list of integers.
But I can also create a list of strings such as a other string will be another strange the bunch of
random letters or characters and then we see my list is there as well.
And also note that we can have mixed data types so I can have integers floats and then strings as well.
All mixed up here.
And the list has no problem with that.
Now let's discuss quickly indexing and slicing.
It basically works the exact same way as in a string will create a brand new list and will have this
be a list of letters say A B C and D and then if I check out my list I have a list of letters.
Imagine I wanted to grab the first item in my list.
That's the string A so I can say my list 0 and then that's a if I want to grab a b and c..
Well let's think about this.
I want to grab 0 1 to add up to and including three.
Which means I start at 0 and then go up to and don't include three and then I have a list.
So notice here it returns back the list subsection.
Now I want to quickly make a note here that Python has a built in functions.
We just saw that list was actually pre-built into Python as a essentially special keyword that we're
going to use later on.
You can use it to transform things into lists.
There's a really useful built in function called L E N for length and this allows you to return back
the length of objects.
So if you pass any string into this.
So hello it's going to return back how many characters are in that string.
And likewise if you pass in a list to this say my list is going to return back.
How many objects are in that list.
So you should also be careful of not wanting to overwrite Eliane with some other functionality or some
other variable.
Now let's go ahead and move on to discuss useful list methods.
We just saw that strings had methods such as upper and lower and split and we saw that split created
that list and we've learned a little bit more about lists so far.
I want to discuss methods that can be called off of a list object to do this will say my list is equal
to one two three and one really useful method is appending to a list and appending to a list allows
us to add something onto the end of a list.
You can say my list that append should be able to tab autocomplete this.
If you're not able to tap autocomplete it is probably because you actually haven't ran the cell that
defined my list yet and then append just allows you to append another item to the end of the list.
So right now my list is 1 to 3.
Let's go ahead and append 4 to it and then I can check that my list is now 1 2 3 4.
If I want to remove an item from the end of my list I can use the pop method.
I will say pop.
Make sure to do open close princes if you don't.
Again you just get the report back of what it is.
Open close print sees run that and notice it returns back the last item of my list which happens to
be 4 and this is an in-place method meaning it actually affects the current variable in place so if
I take a look at my list again it no longer has that for OK.
Let's go ahead and append Forgan one more time we'll say it my list append four.
And then we see my list imagine that I wanted to remove not the last item on my list but the first item
on my list.
How can I do that.
Well Pop takes and parameters and later on we'll see that many methods actually take in parameters in
order to adjust what the method is going to do.
We'll say my list pop and I can do shift tab to see the documentation string of this method and it says
back elde up pop and it's going to remove and return the item at the index.
Meaning that I can actually provide an index location to this pop argument.
So by default the index is negative 1 meaning it returns back the very last item of the list.
But if you want to grab the first item you could say 0 for index 0 and it pops off the first item of
that list.
So now that I see my list I see two three four and I remove that first item.
Let's do my list is equal to 1 2 3 for one more time here to show my list again.
Notice that my list pop is actually returning back this either first item second item or whatever happens
for the index.
If I actually wanted to save the item as a variable what I can do is say my first item is equal to.
Let's put in some other scores for snicked casing here.
My first item is equal to my list.
The pop 0.
So what is happening here is we're popping off the first elements in that list.
And there were actually salient to my first item.
So my list no longer has that number one.
Instead we've been able to save it as my first item this general idea of methods returning things are
operating in place is sometimes a little confusing for new recruits and it takes a little while to build
some sort of intuition about what's going on with a method.
And I want to show you a couple of more examples to get an idea of methods that sometimes don't return
anything or operate in place.
So let's go ahead and say my list again is equal to.
We're going to say one two three four five.
OK I have my list and if I do.
And then hit tab I noticed yours.
A lot of methods here.
I'm going to use the reverse method now.
So this method interestingly enough doesn't actually return anything.
Instead it operates in place.
So if I take a look at my list now it's been reversed.
What I cannot do is something like this result is equal to my list reverse because my list thought reverse
is occurring in place.
It means it's affecting the actual variable my list and it's not actually returning anything.
So if I take a look at results I don't get anything back that basically does not return anything.
And this idea of returning something is going to come into play when we learn how to build out our own
functions.
So keep that idea of returning something or not returning something in the back because you're mine
for when we cover functions we're actually going to use a return keyword.
But for now just keep a general idea that some functions or some methods won't return anything and others
will affect the variable in place.
Another very similar method to reverse is sorting.
So if I say my list is equal to let's put in a bunch of kind of random unsorted numbers here I can actually
say my list dot and then say sort and nothing's returned here meaning my list has been sorted in place.
So the methods we've gone over so far is sorting a list reversing a list popping an item off of the
list.
And this is something where we do return an object and then we have appending to a list nothing's returned
here we just add on an object to the very end.
Now if we want to not put in an object at the very end but actually insert it to a special location
we can use the insert method for that.
So create one last list here for example 1 2 3 and instead of appending to the very end.
I want to insert it as the first item that is index 0 that I can say inserts and the first argument
is the index to the ssion of where you want to insert this.
I will insert this at zero.
That is the first item.
And then let's make it really obvious by saying new.
And then I check my list I see new one to three.
OK.
So you have insert with the capability of inserting this item at any location.
Finally the last topic I want to cover is nested lists and that's just the idea that a list can hold
not just the variable objects that we've seen before or like floats numbers or strings.
It can actually hold in other lists.
So I can say let's get a couple empty cells here a new list equal to one comma to comma and then I can
insert another sublist here a b c.
So now notice that I have a list inside of another list and the type of this is still a list.
So imagine I wanted to grab the letter A from this list how would I actually do that.
Well I would need to check out my list and index out this nested list.
So that is at 0 1 index 2.
So let's grab that.
And now I've been able to retrieve that list itself and then actually off of this I can perform another
set of index calls to grab the first item here which is a index 0.
And then I can grab the string A.
Having more than one level of nested list is not really that common.
It's sometimes pretty common to see objects nested one level in such as a list inside of another list.
It's pretty uncommon to see a list inside of a list and side of a list et cetera just because it gets
so hard and tricky to retrieve things.
OK that's it for this lesson.
We'll see at the next one.